README.md, before:

# Ballet On Cobblestone Road

## Elevator Pitch

I own and run my own ballet studio. I teach ages 3 to 14 currently. I love it so much. I love interacting with my students on a daily basis and seeing their progress and sharing their learning moments with them. However, communicating with the parents can be a hug problem for me. I have been unable to find a serice that provides all of the communication in one place. Currently I am using multiple platforms such as text, email, google calendars and google spreadsheets and frankly its a mess. I never know where I've put information or if I've forgotten to update something or if I've sent the right information to the right class's parents. So I have decided to just skip all the fuss and make my own app where I can easily put everything I need and update parents smoothly. Most moms these days are quite attatched to their phones and use them for reminders of their kids activities already, so I thought that would be the best way to communicate.

## Key Features

1. Log in and specific accounts for each parent.
2. Secure log in over HTTPS
3. On my end a clear list of classes, students and parents contact info.
4. On the parent end they will be able to see the class their student is enrolled in and what time the class is. (This will eventually turn into a calendar)
5. Both parents and myself will be able to update and edit their information.
6. There will be more but for this class I'm just going to focus on those 3.

## Technology Use:

**HTML** - I will start with 2 HTML pages: one for log in and one for the parents to view the class their child is enrolled in, the 3rd will be the page I see containing all the students info and their classes.

**CSS** - I want this app to look good on all phone and tablet sizes. I don't see this app ever being used for a bigger screen. But I want it to look clean and professional and very easy for moms to navigate and use.

**JavaScript** - Log in and register buttons work properly and the info page is able to be updated by either parents or me. When changes are made they will call the backend and send changes to the database.

**Web service** - Backend service for:

- adding a user
- retrieving user info
- retrieving lists of classes
- updating a users info

**DB/Login** - Stores users and their info in the database. Cannot log in unless they have already registered.

**WebSocket** - When a new user registers my list of students is updated. If I make changes to a classes schedule, it updates the parents account.

**React** - I'm going to use React so that the application can be used on both android and IOS.

## Mock Up of Key Pages in my App

![Page 1](appDrawing/Page1.png)
![Page 2](appDrawing/Page2.png)
![Page 3](appDrawing/Page3.png)
![Page 4](appDrawing/Page4.png)
![Page 5](appDrawing/Page5.png)
![Page 6](appDrawing/Page6.png)
![Page 7](appDrawing/Page7.png)
![Page 8](appDrawing/Page8.png)
![Page 9](appDrawing/Page9.png)
![Page 10](appDrawing/Page10.png)
![Page 11](appDrawing/Page11.png)

## Startup HTML

- I ended up having to make more HTML pages than I thought I would. But I learned I really need to think things through and that everything (as in a clickable button) that will go to a new page of information needs an HTML.
- HTML's needed:

  - index.html (this is the login page)
  - registration.html
  - home.html
  - profile-information.html
  - edit-information.html
  - admin-dashboard.html (this will become my home page when I can actually code and store users)
  - student-info.html
  - notices.html
  - splits.html (these last two were just so I could figure out how to make a menue at the bottom work. I will not be adding anything else to these pages for this project, but I will in the future)

- Links:

  - I have linked all the appropriate pages to their buttons
  - index.html
    - login -> home.html
    - register -> registration.html
  - registration.html
    - register -> home.html
  - home.html
    - profile -> profile-information.html
  - profile-information.html
    - edit profile -> edit-information.html
  - edit-information.html
    - update information -> profile-information.html
  - admin-dashboard.html
    - any students name -> student-info.html
  - at the bottom of home.html, profile-information.html, admin-dashboard.html, student-info.html, notices.html, splits.html
    - home -> home.html
    - admin -> admin-dashboard.html
    - notices -> notices.html
    - splits -> splits.html

- Images I plan to add in:

  - switch out the profile button for an avatar of the user and make it clickable
  - I will add my company logo to the top of all the pages where my name is locatd

- 3rd party API calls:

  - this will be used when a user logs in or out, when a new user registers, and when pulling data to view on the home screen
  - this is (at the moment) what my app is all about, just adding to a database and viewing the information stored there

- WebSockets:
  - I was obviously very confused about the difference between API calls and WebSockets and I currently do not have an application for WebSockets in my app
  - So I will work on adding a chat of some kind (which I was going to add at some future stage) between me and the parents

## Startup CSS

- In starting the CSS, I realized I left out quite a few things (such as a log out button) and that my HTML was not structured the best to help me access the elements that I wanted. I ended up needing to add a bunch of class descriptions and rearagning most of my divs.
- But I was able to put the styling that was consistent accross the different pages into their own css file instead of having to copy and paste.
- Header, footer, and main content body
  - The header and footer I was able to style in one css file and I was able to add some fun functionality (I think) and my logo
- Navigation elements
  - all the links to different pages look quite professional (or at least as close to my vasa app as I could get)
  - none of them have funny underlines or weird colors
- Responsive to window resizing
  - this took me the longest to do, but I got the headers and the footers to work out first, then was able to work on the main body parts for each page
- Application elements
- Application text content
  - I got my husband to help me with both of these. I was able to have good spacing around all my elements and was even able to use google fonts to make everything consistent
- Application images

  - I was able to add my little avatar profile image and make it clickable
  - I also added my logo to the headers
  - and I even got cute little logos for the main buttons at the bottom in the footer

- WebSockets
  - As I only got my grade back for the HTML part of this assignment today, I have not had a chance to work on adding the WebSocket element
  - I will start on this tomorrow (it's 11:30 pm)

Commit message:

chat features added and quote of the day added

README.md, after:

# Ballet On Cobblestone Road

## Elevator Pitch

I own and run my own ballet studio. I teach ages 3 to 14 currently. I love it so much. I love interacting with my students on a daily basis and seeing their progress and sharing their learning moments with them. However, communicating with the parents can be a hug problem for me. I have been unable to find a serice that provides all of the communication in one place. Currently I am using multiple platforms such as text, email, google calendars and google spreadsheets and frankly its a mess. I never know where I've put information or if I've forgotten to update something or if I've sent the right information to the right class's parents. So I have decided to just skip all the fuss and make my own app where I can easily put everything I need and update parents smoothly. Most moms these days are quite attatched to their phones and use them for reminders of their kids activities already, so I thought that would be the best way to communicate.

## Key Features

1. Log in and specific accounts for each parent.
2. Secure log in over HTTPS
3. On my end a clear list of classes, students and parents contact info.
4. On the parent end they will be able to see the class their student is enrolled in and what time the class is. (This will eventually turn into a calendar)
5. Both parents and myself will be able to update and edit their information.
6. There will be more but for this class I'm just going to focus on those 3.

## Technology Use:

**HTML** - I will start with 2 HTML pages: one for log in and one for the parents to view the class their child is enrolled in, the 3rd will be the page I see containing all the students info and their classes.

**CSS** - I want this app to look good on all phone and tablet sizes. I don't see this app ever being used for a bigger screen. But I want it to look clean and professional and very easy for moms to navigate and use.

**JavaScript** - Log in and register buttons work properly and the info page is able to be updated by either parents or me. When changes are made they will call the backend and send changes to the database.

**Web service** - Backend service for:

- adding a user
- retrieving user info
- retrieving lists of classes
- updating a users info

**DB/Login** - Stores users and their info in the database. Cannot log in unless they have already registered.

**WebSocket** - When a new user registers my list of students is updated. If I make changes to a classes schedule, it updates the parents account.

**React** - I'm going to use React so that the application can be used on both android and IOS.

## Mock Up of Key Pages in my App

![Page 1](appDrawing/Page1.png)
![Page 2](appDrawing/Page2.png)
![Page 3](appDrawing/Page3.png)
![Page 4](appDrawing/Page4.png)
![Page 5](appDrawing/Page5.png)
![Page 6](appDrawing/Page6.png)
![Page 7](appDrawing/Page7.png)
![Page 8](appDrawing/Page8.png)
![Page 9](appDrawing/Page9.png)
![Page 10](appDrawing/Page10.png)
![Page 11](appDrawing/Page11.png)

## Startup HTML

- I ended up having to make more HTML pages than I thought I would. But I learned I really need to think things through and that everything (as in a clickable button) that will go to a new page of information needs an HTML.
- HTML's needed:

  - index.html (this is the login page)
  - registration.html
  - home.html
  - profile-information.html
  - edit-information.html
  - admin-dashboard.html (this will become my home page when I can actually code and store users)
  - student-info.html
  - notices.html
  - splits.html (these last two were just so I could figure out how to make a menue at the bottom work. I will not be adding anything else to these pages for this project, but I will in the future)

- Links:

  - I have linked all the appropriate pages to their buttons
  - index.html
    - login -> home.html
    - register -> registration.html
  - registration.html
    - register -> home.html
  - home.html
    - profile -> profile-information.html
  - profile-information.html
    - edit profile -> edit-information.html
  - edit-information.html
    - update information -> profile-information.html
  - admin-dashboard.html
    - any students name -> student-info.html
  - at the bottom of home.html, profile-information.html, admin-dashboard.html, student-info.html, notices.html, splits.html

    - home -> home.html
    - admin -> admin-dashboard.html
    - notices -> notices.html
    - splits -> splits.html

  - I have also added the chat. It will appear as one of the bottom menue buttons and can be accessed the same as all the others

- Images I plan to add in:

  - switch out the profile button for an avatar of the user and make it clickable
  - I will add my company logo to the top of all the pages where my name is locatd

- ~~3rd party API calls:~~ I got this wrong, this will just be my regular API calls to my own database:

  - this will be used when a user logs in or out, when a new user registers, and when pulling data to view on the home screen
  - this is (at the moment) what my app is all about, just adding to a database and viewing the information stored there

  - **3rd party API** will be a ballet quote of the day found on the notices tab

- WebSockets:

  - I was obviously very confused about the difference between API calls and WebSockets and I currently do not have an application for WebSockets in my app
  - So I will work on adding a chat of some kind (which I was going to add at some future stage) between me and the parents

  - chat has been added and prettiefied! (It's my favorite page so far)

## Startup CSS

- In starting the CSS, I realized I left out quite a few things (such as a log out button) and that my HTML was not structured the best to help me access the elements that I wanted. I ended up needing to add a bunch of class descriptions and rearagning most of my divs.
- But I was able to put the styling that was consistent accross the different pages into their own css file instead of having to copy and paste.
- Header, footer, and main content body
  - The header and footer I was able to style in one css file and I was able to add some fun functionality (I think) and my logo
- Navigation elements
  - all the links to different pages look quite professional (or at least as close to my vasa app as I could get)
  - none of them have funny underlines or weird colors
- Responsive to window resizing
  - this took me the longest to do, but I got the headers and the footers to work out first, then was able to work on the main body parts for each page
- Application elements
- Application text content
  - I got my husband to help me with both of these. I was able to have good spacing around all my elements and was even able to use google fonts to make everything consistent
- Application images

  - I was able to add my little avatar profile image and make it clickable
  - I also added my logo to the headers
  - and I even got cute little logos for the main buttons at the bottom in the footer

- WebSockets
  - As I only got my grade back for the HTML part of this assignment today, I have not had a chance to work on adding the WebSocket element
  - I will start on this tomorrow (it's 11:30 pm)
